What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?
Create .git file keep track of the snapshots of the files in the directory, with no commits at first.
To tell git I want to track the version histories of this directory

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?
Working directory is like a pointer in the world of all directories on the computer, to indicate current working directory.
Respository is a place where commits of files are tracked, organized, and stored.
Staging area is not a directory, something like a place prepared before commits
It's a cushion area, select what changes one would like to commit, option to revert back

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
Use staging area to examine the difference I'm going to make compared to the working directory, hand pick stuff from working directory
Examine the difference between the staging area and the last commit to make sure the changes in the staging area are a logical change.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
 - Context switching from development perspective of a programmer
	To experiment with some new features without breaking the working software
	To develop a different version and start with the same code bases
	To evolve the main branch (master) and the other branches at the same time
 - When collaborating with others
 	Production branch with working code
 	Features to work on my own

Branches would help make the switch from one direction to another more friendly and esay, people can name a branch and switch to that branch and checkout to make changes, then merge the changes back when it's done.

What's the git command to see the commits visually?
git log --graph --oneline --all
or git log --graph --oneline branch1 branch2

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
Group commits together under a branch makes it easy to understand the structure.

git merge branch1
 - if supplied only with one branch, the supllied branch will be merged into the checkout out branch

git show commit_id
 - compare a commit to its parent

 What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
 The functions or features developed in another branch are merged with the checked out branch.
 To visualize the brancheds and merges.

git log -n 1
 - show the last commit

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
			pros						cons
automatic   easy to do,raise warnings   loses control, can mess the code up
manual      hard                        allows control, how the 											        code should be merged requires lots 										of study
